.TH WebCpp 1 "May 2013" "WebCpp" WebCpp
.SH NAME
WebCpp - A C++ Web development framework
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B WebCpp
[\fI-h\fR | \fI--help\fR] [\fI-v\fR | \fI--verbose\fR] [\fI--version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBWebCpp\fR executable is the WebCpp framework itself. It the server to
which the HTTP server will connect to as a client to process user requests
through FastCGI.

A single instance of the \fBWebCpp\fR program must be launched once. This
program can be launched manually by the user for debugging purposes or as
a daemon in a production environment.

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Prints help usage on WebCpp and exits.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
Asks WebCpp to be verbose. This will print more informations about the running
instance, useful for debugging.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Prints version number and exits.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
To report bugs, see <http://bugs.webcpp.org/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kévin Lesénéchal <kevin@lesenechal.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2011-2013 Kévin Lesénéchal <kevin@lesenechal.org>.

WebCpp is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

WebCpp is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
WebCpp.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
